# DNCS-LAB

This repository contains the Vagrant files required to run the virtual lab environment used in the DNCS course.

# Requirements
 - Python 3
 - 10GB disk storage
 - 2GB free RAM
 - Virtualbox
 - Vagrant (https://www.vagrantup.com)
 - Internet

# How-to
 - Install Virtualbox and Vagrant
 - Clone this repository
`git clone https://github.com/dustnic/dncs-lab`
 - You should be able to launch the lab from within the cloned repo folder.
```
cd dncs-lab
[~/dncs-lab] vagrant up
```
Once you launch the vagrant script, it may take a while for the entire topology to become available.
 - Verify the status of the 4 VMs
 ```
 [dncs-lab]$ vagrant status                                                                                                                                                                
Current machine states:

router                    running (virtualbox)
switch                    running (virtualbox)
host-a                    running (virtualbox)
host-b                    running (virtualbox)
```
- Once all the VMs are running verify you can log into all of them:
`vagrant ssh router`
`vagrant ssh switch`
`vagrant ssh host-a`
`vagrant ssh host-b`
`vagrant ssh host-c`

# Assignment
This section describes the assignment, its requirements and the tasks the student has to complete.
The assignment consists in a simple piece of design work that students have to carry out to satisfy the requirements described below.
The assignment deliverable consists of a Github repository containing:
- the code necessary for the infrastructure to be replicated and instantiated
- an updated README.md file where design decisions and experimental results are illustrated
- an updated answers.yml file containing the details of 

## Design Requirements
- Hosts 1-a and 1-b are in two subnets (*Hosts-A* and *Hosts-B*) that must be able to scale up to respectively 175 and 454 usable addresses
- Host 2-c is in a subnet (*Hub*) that needs to accommodate up to 230 usable addresses
- Host 2-c must run a docker image (dustnic82/nginx-test) which implements a web-server that must be reachable from Host-1-a and Host-1-b
- No dynamic routing can be used
- Routes must be as generic as possible
- The lab setup must be portable and executed just by launching the `vagrant up` command

## Tasks
- Fork the Github repository: https://github.com/dustnic/dncs-lab
- Clone the repository
- Run the initiator script (dncs-init). The script generates a custom `answers.yml` file and updates the Readme.md file with specific details automatically generated by the script itself.
  This can be done just once in case the work is being carried out by a group of (<=2) engineers, using the name of the 'squad lead'. 
- Implement the design by integrating the necessary commands into the VM startup scripts (create more if necessary)
- Modify the Vagrantfile (if necessary)
- Document the design by expanding this readme file
- Fill the `answers.yml` file where required (make sure that is committed and pushed to your repository)
- Commit the changes and push to your own repository
- Notify the examiner that work is complete specifying the Github repository, First Name, Last Name and Matriculation number. This needs to happen at least 7 days prior an exam registration date.

# Notes and References
- https://rogerdudler.github.io/git-guide/
- http://therandomsecurityguy.com/openvswitch-cheat-sheet/
- https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/howto-linux-configuring-default-route-with-ipcommand/
- https://www.vagrantup.com/intro/getting-started/


# Design

## IP subnettig
The network was splitted in 4 subnets:

-**A**: it contains host-a and enp0s8.9, the router-1 port.  [Vlan based]

-**B**: it contains host-b and enp0s8.10, the router-1 port.  [Vlan based]  

-**C**: it contains host-c and enp0s8, the router-2 port.  

-**D**: it contains enp0s9 port, the one shared by routers.

## Ip address
This is my addresses:

| Network |    Ip/Network Mask    |
|:-------:|:---------------------:|
|  **A**  |   192.168.110.81/24   |
|  **B**  |   192.168.10.55/23    |
|  **C**  |   192.168.12.25/24    |
|  **D**  |   192.168.250.0/30    |

The available IPs are **((2^M)-2)** (two are required for broadcast and network).
8 bits were reserved in network A, 16 bits in network B, 8 in network C and 2 in network D, obtaining this result:

| Network | Available IPs |
|:-------:|:-------------:|
|   **A** |      254      |
|   **B** |      510      |
|   **C** |      254      |
|   **D** |      2        |  

## VLAN
The switch broadcast area of hosts a and b should be separated: VLAN can split the switch in two virtual switches and make it possible.
The network interface of **A** and **B** became this:

# Testing

My repo's desing is here:
```
https://github.com/RemiChierchia/dncs-lab

```
In order to get the web-page, this command can be runned from hosts a and b:
```
   curl 192.168.12.25:80/index.html
```  

## Routing tables




<snippet>
  <content>
    <![CDATA[#${1:Project Name}

  TODO: Write a project description

  ## Installation
  TODO: Describe the installation process

  ## Usage
  TODO: Write usage instructions

  ## Contributing
  1. Fork it!
  2. Create your feature branch: `git checkout -b my-new-feature`
  3. Commit your changes: `git commit -am 'Add some feature'`
  4. Push to the branch: `git push origin my-new-feature`
  5. Submit a pull request :D

  ## History
  TODO: Write history

  ## Credits
  TODO: Write credits

  ## License
  TODO: Write license

  ]]></content>
  <tabTrigger>readme</tabTrigger>
</snippet>
